Clarify mask/dseg/probseg in common derivatives (#489)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/05-derivatives/03-imaging.md

            sub-001_desc-tumor_mask.json
```

## Segmentations

> A *segmentation* is a labeling of a spatial image with anatomical structures

Author: I find this suggestion really hard to parse.

Are there examples of 1D signals that will be segmented in neuroimaging that really motivates this? I can try to offer some wording that would cover those cases.

> A *segmentation* is a labeling of a spatial image with anatomical structures

Reviewer: Epilepsy EEG markup where there are multiple different seizure types? This is coming from no familiarity with EEG BIDS whatsoever; it just came to mind. 

Another might be a [discrete fixel-based parcellation](https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/image_data.html#fixel-image-directory-format); but whether such data are 1D or 4D is a matter of perspective :upside_down_face:

such that each voxel is identified with a label or a combination of labels.

> A *discrete segmentation* represents each tissue class with a unique integer

Author: Providing multiple equivalent ways of representing identical data is not really a goal of BIDS, and using the same suffix to enable multiple encodings is getting into territory that's hard to validate and hard to use downstream. If somebody very strongly wants to expand a label file out into ROI volumes, they can use multiple masks or call it a probseg that's all 0s and 1s.

            sub-001_desc-tumor_mask.json
```

## Segmentations

A *segmentation* is a labeling of a spatial image with anatomical structures
such that each location (for example, a voxel or a surface vertex) is identified
with a label or a combination of labels.
A *discrete segmentation* represents each structure with a unique integer
label.
A *probabilistic segmentation* represents each structure as values between
0 and 1 (inclusive) at each location in the image, and one volume/frame per

> structure may be concatenated in a single file.

Reviewer: Sorry, I'm gonna poke at this again :grimacing: 

This is technically another location where there are two different concepts getting mushed together (yes, that is the technical term):

- How are multiple segmented structures represented in a single file?
    - Within a single volume
    - Across volumes
- What data type is used to represent the segmentation?
    - Binary
    - Floating-point

For continuous / "probabilistic" data, storing multiple structures in a single volume is impossible, and so necessitates storing them across volumes.

For discrete data, we're accustomed to such being represented in a single volume / frame, using unique integer labels. This however enforces a one-to-one mapping between "elements" (e.g. voxels, vertices) and labels. In some instances (TractSeg comes to mind, as well as internal developments here), it's possible for one voxel to be included in multiple binary segmentations, at which point using unique integer labels does not work and one would need a 4D image. 

(In a way this could be thought of as a 4D `_mask.nii[.gz]` image as opposed to / in addition to a `_dseg` image...)

I don't actually have a fixed opinion on what to do here (if anything); just seeing if the spec can be made to cover the fundamentals, rather than unnecessarily excluding anything that strays slightly from the current most common use cases.

### Discrete Segmentations

Discrete segmentations of brain tissue represent multiple anatomical structures
(such as tissue class or Brodmann area) with a unique integer label in a 3D volume.

> See [Anatomical Labels](#anatomical-labels) for interpretation how integer values
> map to anatomical structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Anatomical Labels](#anatomical-labels) for interpretation regarding how
integer values map to anatomical structures.
```

            sub-001_space-orig_dseg.json
```

A segmentation can be used to generate a binary mask that functions as a
discrete "label" for a single structure.

> In this case, the mask suffix MUST be used, and the `desc` entity SHOULD be used

Reviewer 2: Good point. I can see where label and desc might want to be together.

            sub-001_space-orig_dseg.json
```

A segmentation can be used to generate a binary mask that functions as a
discrete "label" for a single structure.
In this case, the mask suffix MUST be used, and the `label` entity SHOULD be used
to specify the masked structure (see [Anatomical labels](#anatomical-labels), and
the `Atlas` metadata SHOULD be defined.
For example:

```Text
pipeline/
    sub-001/
        anat/
            sub-001_space-orig_label-GM_mask.nii.gz
```

### Probabilistic Segmentations

Probabilistic segmentations of brain tissue represent a single anatomical

> structure with values ranging from 0 to 1 in individual 3D volumes or across

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure with values in the range `[0.0,1.0]` in individual 3D volumes or across
```

(trying to indicate the the indicated range is inclusive of the bounding values)
